
Zelenskyy denounces abduction of Melitopol mayor,
reports 1,300 Ukrainian troops lost: LIVE UPDATES

The Russian military broadened its attacks on Friday, targeting an airfield in the west and a major industrial hub in the east. The Ukrainians also said the
Russians shelled a cancer hospital south of Kyiv and a mosque in Mariupol where more than 80 people were hiding

Covered by: Brie Stimson, Peter Aitken, Fox News, FOX Business and Kyle Morris Cf] (vy) e e

Fast Facts

@ Zelenskyy announced Saturday that his forces lost 1,300 troops since the invasion started.

©. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy late Friday accused Russians of kidnapping the mayor of Melitopol, saying “They have transitioned into a
new stage of terror"

@ Atleast 2.5 million people have fled Ukraine as refugees since the conflict started, according to the United Nations

OVENS TON TNS CVCHIE NES CNded.

Maren 12th =

Putin successfully implementing proactive US developed strategy while US lags behind:
expert

A former USS. intelligence official tells Fox News Digital that Russia has embraced over the years a similar plan to an American military
concept known as the OODA loop which enables one side to react to unfolding events more rapidly and efficiently than an opponent.

The OODA loop, which stands for observe, orient, decide, act and was developed by U.S. Air Force Colonel John Boyd and is defined by
Tech-Target as a “four-step approach to decision-making that focuses on filtering available information, putting it in context and quickly
making the most appropriate decision while also understanding that changes can be made as more data becomes available."

The strategy is especially useful, according to Tech-Target, in "scenarios where competition is involved and where the ability to react to
changing circumstances faster than an opponent leads to an advantage.”

Rebekah Koffler, a former U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency agent and author of "Putin's Playbook: Russia's Secret Plan to Defeat
America" told Fox News Digital that the Russians have adopted a similar concept.



o

March 12th

Putin's reported arrest of Rus:
invasion: exper

in intel official shows frustration with progress of

Russian President Vladimir Putin has reportedly placed one of his top intelligence officials on house arrest, a move that one expert tells
Fox News Digital would be a sign that he is seeking to shift blame for a Ukrainian invasion that US. intelligence believes has not gone
according to plan.

According to a report from the Sunday Times, Russian journalist Andrei Soldatov claims that Putin has arrested the head of the Federal
Security Service, Sergey Beseda. Fox News has not independently confirmed this.

Beseda has reportedly been placed on house arrest along with his deputy Anatoly Bolyukh
The Federal Security Service, known as FSB, is Russia's top security and counterintelligence apparatus. One former US. intelligence
officer tells Fox News Digital that the move signals Putin's dissatisfaction with his intelligence community's assessment of the Ukrainian

invasion.



o

March 12th
Republican lawmakers slam Biden for delayed response in supporting Ukraine

Wisconsin Rep. Mike Gallagher and Florida Rep. Michael Waltz call on the Biden administration to supply Ukraine with ‘everything they
need’ to defeat Russia,

> DS ww) ——o Arsuare 7

o

March 12th
Putin nas bet everything on this: Lt. Col. Dakota Wood

Lt. Col. Dakota Wood assesses the strength of the Russian and Ukrainian forces.

{ LIVE |

snare EY 7

o

Daines: Biden, Democrats using Russian oil ban as a ‘fig leaf’ to cover up ‘radical’ Green
New Deal

FIRST ON FOX: Sen. Steve Daines, R-Mont,, accused President Biden and Democrats of using the Russian oil ban as a "fig leaf" to cover
for their "radical" Green New Deal policy proposals.

Daines made the comments during an interview with FOX Business and said that this isn't just about banning Russian oil: Democrats
want to ban all oil.”

I think the Democrats are using this ban as a fig leaf to cover up their radical Green New Deal priorities because it's not just about
banning Russian Ol. [hey Want to Dan all Ol, Vaines sald.

He said that while Democrats want to ban Russian oil, they aren't willing to support American oil either.



o

March 12th

Russia expert: Putin ‘cornered like a rat’ and will do whatever necessary to lash out

Russias President Via MIKHAIL METZEL/SPUTNIK/AFP via 
Russian President Vladimir Putin is feeling "comered like a rat" as his Ukrainian invasion lingers into its third week, a former US.
intelligence officer told Fox News Digital, and his personal history suggests he will continue to lash out in order to regain the upper hand

Rebekah Koffler, a former U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency agent and author of "Putin's Playbook: Russia's Secret Plan to Defeat
‘America’, told Fox News Digital on Saturday that an excerpt from Putin's 2000 autobiography “First Person’ detailing growing up ina
dilapidated Leningrad apartment can be applied to his record as the Russian leader and his current invasion of Ukraine.
Putin describes in his book having to traverse several rat infested floors to get to his childhood apartment and that one day he wrote that
he grabbed a stick and chased a large rat into a comer. When the rat realized he was trapped, he attacked young Putin forcing him to run

away ina moment that apparently impacted the future Russian president.

Koffler said that the childhood story about the rat, and other stories Putin has approved to be told about his personal life, are a conscious
effort to convey to the West that he will always strike back when trapped.



o

March 12th
Poland takes in millions of Ukrainians, struggles to meet their needs

Fox News correspondent Alex Hogan looks at the influx of Ukrainian refugees in Poland.

> RZESZOW, POLAND

amywery

> D6 une —e Ar suas)?

“Im confused,’ one Ukrainian refugee in Poland told Fox News. “I don't know in the future what we will do.”

The photos show fires, as well as artillery craters left behind from Russia's attack on the city.

Click here to see the other photos.

o

March 12th
Russians’ diplomatic terms ‘unacceptable’: Ambassador

‘Amb. Paula Dobriansky criticizes Russia's diplomatic terms and predicts the likelihood of diplomacy.

our

© 0000-70423) —@ sine)?

o
March 12th
Russian forces close in on Kyiv as Ukraine prepares for all-out assault

Fox News foreign correspondent Trey Yingst provides the latest developments from Kyiv, Ukraine.

RUSSIA

: [RUSSIAN OCCUPIED
5 Ye } m=> PAST ADVANCE
& > RECENT ADVANCE

“LVIV) Kyiv . === UKRAINIAN DEFENSE
SG & a

/ DNIPRO

Asus Ee y7

Poste

o

March 12th

Russia denies Ukraine's claim that they are taking control of Zaporizhzhya Nuclear
Power Plant

Russia is denying a Ukrainian claim that the country is trying to take full control of Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant under under the
management of the state firm Rosatom, according to a statement from Rafael Grossi, the director-general of the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA)
Ina telephone call with Grossi, Director General of Rosatom Alexey Likhachev said that while some company personnel were present at
the Zaporizhzhya NPP in south-eastern Ukraine, Rosatom had not taken operational control of the plant or intended for it to be controlled
under Rosatomis "management system.”

Ina letter sent to Grossi, the President of Ukraine's nuclear power plant operator Energoatom, Petro Kotin, said around 400 Russian
soldiers were “being present full time on site” and stated the plant is currently controlled by the Russian military forces’ commander.

Kotin's claim was later denied by the Russian Federation.

Earlier this month, Ukraine warned the IAEA that Russian military forces had taken control of the country’s largest nuclear power plant on
March 4

The Zaporizhzhya NPP is Ukraine's largest nuclear power plant.

o

March 12th
What it's like inside Moscow amid Ukraine war: Reporter's Notebook

Rumors have been swirling about possible martial law coming to Russia amid concerns the war in Ukraine could prove the boiling crisis
that blows the lid off a controlled society, a sort of hybrid police state with Starbucks and vibrant social media

That last bit of description, of course, applied only until very recently, when cheerful young baristas were sent home and Instagram was
served its death sentence. Most independent news outlets in Russia have been shuttered with writers now in exile to avoid going to jail
for as many as 15 years for crossing the Kremlin's latest and arbitrary "fake news' red line.

The last journalistic brand of note left standing in Moscow is Novaya Gazeta. Its editor-in-chief won last year’s Nobel Peace Prize.
Perhaps Novaya is too famous to fail, too feted to flee. But it is now under enormous pressure. The deputy editor told Fox News about
the mood in Moscow as he sees it.



o

March 12th

Satellite imagery of artillery craters in fields and damaged buildings in western Mariupol

faxar Technol

March 12th

Rep. Garcia says Biden should stop disclosing Ukraine strategies

Rep. Mike Garcia, R-Calif., says President Biden's comments describing what he will or wor't do in Ukraine could put the U.S. at a
disadvantage.

“A good strategist will never disclose what he will or will not do in advance of combat," Garcia, a former Navy pilot, told Fox News Digital.
He noted that Biden previously told reporters that he gave Putin a list of 16 U.S. entities that are “off limits" for a Russian cyberattack in
June.

Biden previously told reporters that he had no intention of sending American troops to Ukraine and, more recently, no intention of
implementing a no-fly zone over Ukraine to avoid U.S. involvement in the war with Russia.



o

March 12th
Zelenskyy says he and Israeli Prime Minister discussed potential for peace talks

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Saturday that he and Israel's Prime Minister Naftali Bennett discussed Russian aggression
and the potential for peace talks during their conversation by phone.

"We talked about Russian aggression and the prospects for peace talks," Zelenskyy wrote in a tweet.

@ Bonogumup 3enexcoKuit @ @ZelenskyyUa vy
§ Ukraine government official

Continued dialogue with = PM @naftalibennett. We
talked about Russian aggression and the prospects for
peace talks. We must stop repressions against civilians:
asked to assist in the release of captive mayor of
Melitopol and local public figures #StopRussia

1:10 PM - Mar 12, 2022 @o

March 12th
Ukrainians pay final respects to the reported 1,300 troops lost

Avvideo shared to social media by Ukrainian Parliament Member Inna Sovsun shows Ukrainians paying their last respects to the reported
1,300 troops who lost their lives amid a war with Russia.

Inna Sovsun @ v
@InnaSovsun

People are paying their last respects to the fallen hero.
Heartbreaking. 1300 UA soldiers have died in the first 2
weeks of war. Their sacrifice will not be forgotten or
forgiven. Ever. #StopPutin

“Their sacrifice will not be forgotten or forgiven. Ever,” Sovsun wrote.

o

March 12th
Zelenskyy issues defiant message to Russia: ‘Let them come’

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Saturday issued a defiant message to Russian President Vladimir Putin as his forces
continue to wage war across Ukraine.

The Pentagon warned this week that Russia has started to make greater advances on Kyiv as convoys threaten the capital city from
nearly every direction.

In anews address Saturday, Zelenskyy said Russia will have to "carpet-bomb' the capital and kill its residents if it wants to take the city.


o

March 12th

Ukrainian Parliament Member: Putin is ‘losing’
Pe ee
DG onsns@Q ——@ asus Ge] ey”

Former Russian foreign minister: China will 'never' treat Putin as ‘equal’

aN

UARY 4, 2022: Russia's President Viadimi
Druzhinin/Russian Presidential Press and Information Office/TA:

L) and his

China will never treat Russian President Vladimir Putin as an equal and will prove "ruthless" in any business dealings after crippling
sanctions and a drawn-out invasion have left Russia vulnerable, according to a former Russian diplomat.

"Putin might go to China," former Russian foreign minister Andrei Kozyrev told Fox News Digital. "He goes to China because he's not
competitive in other markets and he sells to China the raw materials, but China will never take him as an equal partner or even as ally
because they dontt need it."



o

March 12th

Ukraine says it destroyed Russian rocket launcher system

Asune GE] Oe y7

Ukraine's State Border Guard Service on Saturday released video that supposedly shows the destruction of a Russian multiple rocket
launcher system

The brief video shows an incredible explosion that leaves nothing of the system behind.

Ukraine throughout the invasion has touted its success in destroying Russian vehicles and arms, with its most recent report claiming that
Ukrainian forces destroyed 58 aircraft, 382 tanks and 135 artillery pieces, among others.

March 12th

Zelenskyy pleads with Europe to help free captured mayor: 'l'll talk to whoever I need to
to’

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy pleaded with Western nations Saturday to help him free a captured mayor from the southern
town of Melitopol after he was taken by Russian forces.

“We address all the world leaders that talk to Moscow: France, Germany, Israel and others," Zelenskyy said in an address. "I personally
called the Chancellor of Germany Sholtz and talked to him as well as to Macron.

"rll talk to whoever | need to talk to in order for our people to be freed" he added, urging top nations to use their global standing to
“influence this situation.”



o
ES een 2th
Russian spy chief allegedly under house arrest as Putin seeks scapegoat: report

The Kremlin has reportedly place FSB foreign intelligence chief Sergey Beseda under house arrest with his deputy, British newspaper The
Times reported.

The arrests follow a search of some 20 addresses throughout Moscow as FSB investigated officers who may have contacted journalists
Reports over the past two weeks suggested that an FSB agent may have leaked critical information to Ukraine and the West.

“The formal basis for conducting these searches is the accusation of the embezzlement of funds earmarked for subversive activities in
Ukraine,” said Vladimir Osechkin, an exiled human rights activist. “The real reason is unreliable, incomplete and partially false information

about the political situation in Ukraine”

Putin as reportedly alleged that the FSB provided “false information’ on the situation in Ukraine, including reports in the run-up to the
invasion that were “simply not right.”

o

March 12th
Russian agents threaten Google, Apple representatives with prison time: report
Russian agents are reportedly targeting Google and Apple employees based in the country with prison time.

Agents apparently appeared at the door of a Google executive's home in Moscow and demanded that he remove an app from its Google
Play Store at the request of Russian President Vladimir Putin, The Washington Post reported.



o

March 12th

Russia-Ukraine conflict: Tennessee pro golfer raises money for orphans

EE ee serses itieal KEV

> DES ww ——o a sue Ge] 7

Posted

ox News

o

March 12th
Biden authorizes $200M more for Ukraine military aid

President Biden authorized $200 million in new security assistance to Ukraine, a White House official told Fox News, bringing total
defense aid for Ukraine to $1.2 billion in the last year.

Biden's authorization comes after a public disagreement with Poland on sending fighter jets to Ukraine. The U.S. has been flowing
weapons into Ukraine but balked at transferring MiGs, saying Russia would see such a move as escalatory.

Nonetheless, Moscow warned Saturday that it views any weapons deliveries into Ukraine as "legitimate targets.”


March 12th
Russia plans referendum for new ‘People's Republic’ in Kherson

Russia will push for a referendum to create the "Kherson People's Republic” in a similar model to the supposed breakaway Ukrainian
territories of Donetsk and Luhansk.

Sergey Khlan, a deputy of the Kherson regional council, reported on the possible referendum Saturday, claiming that the military has
contacted local deputies to ask for support,

o

March 12th

In this image from video provided by the Ukrainian Presidential Press Office and posted on Facebook early Saturday, March 12, 2022, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks in
kyiy, Ukraine. (Ukrainian Presidential Press Office via AP)

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy announced during a press conference Saturday that his forces have lost around 1,300 troops
over the past 17 days, Reuters reported.

Ukraine had avoided providing any hard number for its losses in combat, providing numbers of civilian deaths instead

Russia last week claimed that it had killed at least 2,870 Ukrainian troops and wounded 3,500 more.

o

March 12th

Lithuanian nurse on mission to rescue Ukrainians

(7 1).4
yaw =1./ m1 1 f m VILYLYSU RTT stk ee

> DE ww ——@ snare ] 7

o

March 12th
Ukraine news: Major Polish cities running out of space for refugees

Two major Polish cities, including the country's capital of Warsaw and Krakow, its second-largest city, are running out of space for
Ukrainian refugees escaping Russian attacks

Nearly 2.6 million Ukrainians have fled the country amid Russia's invasion as of Saturday — the majority of which (1.6 million) sought
refuge in Poland, according to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).



o

March 12th
Russian agents threatened Google, Apple executives with jail

FSB agents last year visited the homes of Google and Apple executives in Russia and threatened them with jail if they didn’t remove an
app that helped register protest votes against Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The Washington Post reported that this was just one part of a broader campaign by Putin to crack down on opposition prior to the
invasion of Ukraine, including the imprisonment of political adversary Alexei Navalny and the Kremlin takeover of Russia's Facebook
equivalent,

The Kremlin also moved to intimidate foreign tech companies operating in Russia: It imposed fines totaling $120 million against firms
accused of defying censorship guidelines and ordered 13 companies to keep employees in Russia, allowing for the potential arrest or

punishment of employees for their employers’ actions.

“I don't think it's an over-dramatization to say that Putin is longing for a return to Soviet Union times, not only in geopolitical power but in
terms of total control inside the state,” said Pavel Khodorkovsky, founder of the New York-based Institute for Modern Russia
March 12th
Russian tries taking over Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant: Ukraine official

Russian officials attempted to enter and take operational control of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Reuters reported.
Ten officials from Rosatom, a Russian state nuclear company, unsuccessfully tried to enter the plant and take control of operations.

Petro Kotin, the head of Ukrainian energy nuclear company Energoatom, said in a televised interview that “around 500 Russian soldiers
with automatic weapons” remained on the plant's grounds, creating a “bad psychological state” for the staff working there.

March 12th
Russian official warns US arms shipments could be ‘targets’
Asenior Russian diplomat warned the U.S. that Moscow will view any weapons deliveries into Ukraine as “legitimate targets.”

Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said Russia “warned the U.S. that pumping weapons from a number of countries it orchestrates
isn't just a dangerous move, it's an action that makes those convoys legitimate targets.”

He also denounced the “unprecedented attempt to deal a serious blow” to Russia's economy through sanctions and noted that Moscow
will act to avoid hurting itself.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

o

March 12th

Protests in Melitopol over allegedly kidnapped mayor

& Myroslava Petsa @ y
BO Omyroslavapetsa

In Melitopol, defiant residents gathered near occupied
district administration demanding that Russians release
the kidnapped Melitopol mayor Ivan Fedorov - video by
a a _

oe

MME OIA PEY QVMEEEIMT INVEARS YET INIGER EISEN

Citizens of southern Ukraine city have gathered in the streets to protest the alleged abduction of the mayor by Russian forces.

Hundreds of people gathered near the occupied administration buildings to demand the release of Ivan Fedorov. Ukrainian officials
posted video on Friday that they claimed showed Russian troops leading a blindfolded Federov.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Russia of “a new stage of terror.”

“This is obviously a sign of weakness of the invaders,” he said.

o

March 12th

Fighting rages outside Kyiv; death toll in Mariupol reaches 1,500

‘A smoke from shelling rises as a wreath of flowers is placed at 2 cemetery in Vasyikiv south west of Kyiv, Ukraine, Saturday, March 12, 2022. Russian forces appeared to make progress
from northeast Ukraine in their slow fight to reach the capital, Kyi, while tanks and artillery pounded places already under siege. (
Fighting raged on the outskirts of Kyiv Saturday as air raid sirens sounded in the capital and Russian troops attempt to circle the city.

Artillery pounded Kyiv’s northwestern outskirts. To the city’s southwest, two columns of smoke — one black and one white — rose in the
town of Vasikyiv after a strike on an ammunition depot. The strike on the depot caused hundreds of small explosions from detonating
ammunition.

In the besieged city of Mariupol at least 1,500 people have died as of Friday, the government said. The city still has no food or water and
people have been forced to stop burying their dead because of the sheer numbers and danger. Russian troops shelled a matemity
hospital last week and on Saturday the government said a mosque where people were hiding was attacked. At least three people,
including a child died in the hospital attack.

o

March 12th

Ukraine needs ‘aircraft, air defense systems, parliament member says

Responding to a Biden tweet, Alexey Goncharenko says he does not see a difference between providing Ukraine with stingers and
aircraft.

o

March 12th

Ukraine says humanitarian corridors are open Saturday, urges Russia to honor ceasefire

Ukraine government organization

ve Defence of Ukraine @ @DefenceU v

490299 5 OM cinumispainti cra wearrap
a es et is Sas
TyMaHiTapHi Kopugopy ANA eBakyauii MeWKaHUiB
noctpakgannx Big o6cTpiziB mict Ta ana HanpaBneHHa

TYAN ryMaHitapHux BaHTarxiB.

Nogpobuui: bit.ly/3JOKBK9

Biaxpusaioteca ueprosi epaxyauinHi
KOpupopy Ta nnaHyeTbca MOcTaBKa
rymauitapHoi ,onomory; cnopipaemoca

Ha fOoTpUMaHHA P® B3aATux 3060B'A3SaHb —
Ipuna BepewyK

1:51 AM - Mar 12, 2022 @A statement from the Ukrainian president's office said that humanitarian corridors are open in the country from 9 a.m. Saturday to
evacuate residents and get aid in, including one from Zaporizhzhia to the besieged city of Mariupol where there is no food, water or

power.

"| hope that today will be a successful day, all planned routes will be open and Russia will adhere to its commitments to guarantee a
ceasefire." Iryna Vereshchuk, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine said in the statement.

&
March 12th

Zelenskyy, Biden have ‘substantive conversation’ on further steps to support Ukraine

A suare Ge]  ,7

Ukraine's president was ‘truthful, speaking from the heart! Fox News contributor Kiron Skinner says

e Stimson

o

March 12th

Concerns about rape, human trafficking grow as millions of women and children
refugees flee

sing in Medyka, southea:
no are voluntarily provi

sm Poland, on Friday, March 11,
irown security to refugees and

are on the lookout fo

Concems have grown over how to protect Ukrainian refugees from human trafficking and rape as more than 2.5 million mostly women
and children have fled the war.

‘Aman was detained in Poland on suspicion of raping a 19-year-old refugee he'd lured with offers of shelter and in another case a man
seemed to change his story when he was questioned by authorities about only offering help to women and children.

"You have to worry about any potential risks for trafficking — but also exploitation, and sexual exploitation and abuse. These are the kinds
of situations that people like traffickers ... look to take advantage of” Joung-ah Ghedini-Williams, the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees head of global communications, said

Police said the suspect met the 19-year-old girl "by offering his help via an internet portal. She escaped from war-torn Ukraine, did not
speak Polish. She trusted a man who promised to help and shelter her. Unfortunately, al this turned out to be deceitful manipulation."

Police in Berlin have also warmed women of accepting offers to stay overnight.
Human Trafficking Foundation director of operations Tamara Bamett said, "When you've suddenly got a huge cohort of really vulnerable
people who need money and assistance immediately its sort of a breeding ground for exploitative situations and sexual exploitation.

When | saw all these volunteers offering their houses ... that flagged a worry in my head.”

Officials in Romania and Poland said undercover officers are watching out for potential criminality and men offering rides to women in a
Romanian border town have been tumed away.
"We are trying to make a control for every vehicle leaving the area” lonut Epureanu, the chief police commissioner of Romania's Suceava
county said. “A hundred people making transport have good intentions, but it's enough to be one that isn't... and tragedy can come.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

o

Newborn Veronika curled against her mother’s side on Friday, as if to hide from the horror around them — the war that tore apart the
Mariupol matemity hospital where she was meant to greet the world,

On the eve of giving birth, her mother, Mariana Vishegirskaya, had to flee the hospital when a Russian airstrike hit.

Her brow and cheek bloodied, she clutched her belongings in a plastic bag as she navigated down the hospital's debris-strewn stairs in
her polka dot pajamas on Wednesday.

Images of the desperate mothers and medical workers from the Children’s and Women's Health hospital shocked the world, as the
bombing took Russia's war against Ukraine to a sickening new level.



o

March 12th

Russians shelled Mariupol mosque where dozens were hiding: Ukraine Foreign Ministry

uuca_ MFA of Ukraine 8 © @MFA_Ukraine v
§ Ukraine government organization

The mosque of Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent and his
wife Roxolana (Hurrem Sultan) in Mariupol was shelled by
Russian invaders.

More than 80 adults and children are hiding there from
the shelling, including citizens of Turkey.

#StopRussianAggression
#closeUAskyNOW

Lait

AM - Mar 12, 2022 @

Ukraine's Foreign Ministry on Saturday accused Russian troops of shelling a mosque in Mariupol where it said more than 80 adults and
children where sheltering from attacks.

No casualties were immediately reported

o

March 12th

Nearly 1.6 million refugees have fled Ukraine to Poland: Polish border agency

Nearly 1.6 million people Ukrainians have fled to Poland since the war started a Polish border agency said Saturday, according to BBC
News.

A total of 2.5 million refugees have left the country, most heading to Poland, along with Hungary, Romania, Moldova and other nearby
countries.

by Brie Stimson

o

March 12th

Ukraine accuses Russian troops of kidnapping mayor of Melitopol

Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine - Ukrainian Parliament
@ua_parliament

! Warning !
A group of 10 occupiers kidnapped the mayor of
(Zaporizhzhya region) Ivan Fedorov. He
refused to cooperate with the enemy.

ee

8:38 AM - Mar 11, 2022 @Ukraine has accused Russian troops of kidnapping the mayor of Melitopol in southeastern Ukraine.
"The abduction of the mayor of Melitopol is classified as a war crime under the Geneva Conventions and the Additional Protocol banning
the capture of civilian hostages during the war Ukraine's Foreign Ministry said in a statement posted to Facebook. "We urge the
intemational community to immediately react to the abduction of Ivan Fedorov and other civilians in Ukraine, to strengthen pressure on
Russia to force it to end the barbaric war against the Ukrainian people.”

Ukraine's parliament said on Twitter that Fedorov was abducted by 10 troops and had a bag put over his head at one point.

o

March 12th

First Ukrainian refugees arrive in Guatemala
The first Ukrainian refugees relocating to Guatemala arrived in the Central American country on Friday.

"| don't know what the future holds for us, but | hope the war ends soon," one of the refugees said in a video shown by Guatemala,
according to Reuters. "It's hard to say how much my heart hurts for my mother and father in Ukraine, who can't leave.

"At least 2.5 million refugees have fled Ukraine since the war started, most heading to neighboring Poland and other nearby countries like
Moldova, Hungary and Romania.

aby Be stinson Ay

March 12th

Mariupol residents remain without water, food

seen in an apartment building after Russian's army tank fires in Mariupol, Ukraine, Friday, March 11

Heavy shelling continued in Dnipro and Mykolaiv Friday and in besieged Mariupol, unceasing barrages into the city have thwarted
repeated attempts to bring in food and water and evacuate trapped civilians.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

March 12th

Biden: Direct confrontation between Russia and NATO would mean World War III

» President Biden @ @POTUS v
§ United States government official
| want to be clear: We will defend every inch of NATO

territory with the full might of a united and galvanized
NATO.

But we will not fight a war against Russia in Ukraine.

A direct confrontation between NATO and Russia is World
War Ill. And something we must strive to prevent.

10:40 AM - Mar 11, 2022 @March 12th

Russian troops shelled cancer hospital south of Kyiv, Ukrainian officials say

Russian troops shelled a cancer hospital in the southern city of Mykolaiv, Ukraine , with heavy artillery while hundreds of patients were
inside, Ukrainian officials said.

o

o
No one was killed in the attack that left the building damaged, head doctor Maksim Beznosenko said.

Mygolaiv is just under 300 miles south of Kyiv.The Russians bombed a maternity hospital in the besieged city of Mariupol this week,
leaving at least three people, including one child dead

Ukrainians struggling with health con

LIVE | 1:33 AM

ions face difficulties while fleeing country

aS

> DG 10010225) ——@ sume ey 7

Fox News correspondent Mike Tobin discusses how the war in Ukraine is impacting those with existing health conditions and Lviv train
station serving as a hub for refugees on ‘Special Report’

posted by Brie Stimson a