
Yeung, Adam Renton, Tara John, Sana Noor Haq e Ruiz and Alaa Elassar, CNN

a.m. ET, March 1

northeast and east of the city. Photos geolocated and verined by CNN also showed widespread destruction In Makarlv, which
is about 30 miles (48 kilometers) west of Kyiv.

= The humanitarian situation remains bleak as Ukrainian authorities report limited success in securing the evacuation of civilians
from the worst-affected areas.

= Want to help? Learn how to support humanitarian efforts in Ukraine here.

= aOur live coverage of Russia's invasion of Ukraine has moved here.
a

Russia sends war
we know

e. Here’s what

ig to the US about transferring weapons to Uk

Russia has threatened to target supplies of western weapons being shipped to Ukraine, suggesting convoys with foreign
weapons could be considered "legitimate targets."

“We warned the United States that pumping Ukraine with weapons from a number of countries orchestrated by them is not
just a dangerous move, but these are actions that turn the corresponding convoys into legitimate targets,” Russian Deputy
Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said on the state-run Channel One, according to Russia's state-owned RIA Novosti news
agency.

The warning could escalate the situation in Ukraine further.

Some context: Ryabkov's comments came as the US directed $200 million in defense aid and services, including military
education and training, for Ukraine.

Aid includes small arms: A US administration official said the $200 million will provide “immediate military assistance
to Ukraine" and will include “anti-armor, anti-aircraft systems, and small arms in support of Ukraine’s front-line defenders facing
down Russia's unprovoked attack."

Pracidant Ina Biden diractad the drawdewmn icing a mamnranciim that allawe him tr atharizva accictanca withruit laniclatiya

authority or budgetary appropriations.

A White House official said the total amount of security assistance provided to Ukraine by the US is $1.2 billion in the past year.

More military equipment needed in Ukraine: On Saturday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky pleaded with allies for
more aid, saying “The evil which purposefully targets peaceful cities and ambulance vans and explodes hospitals will not stop
with just one country.”

He has repeatedly called for a no-fly zone to be imposed to stop Russian aircraft and for military planes to be sent to Ukraine.

US reluctant to escalate further: The US is concerned that more direct measures could escalate tensions with nuclear
powered Russia even further and risk dragging NATO directly into the war.

The US and other NATO members have so far provided Ukraine with about 17,000 anti-tank missiles and 2,000 Stinger anti-
aircraft missiles, according to a senior US official.

B

Multiple explosions heard near Lviv

Multiple explosions were heard shortly before 6 a.m. local time Sunday on the outskirts of the northwestern city of Lviv, near
Ukraine's border with Poland.

The explosions were heard by a CNN team on the ground.

B

New mayor installed in Russia-controlled Melitopol after kidnapping. Here’s what we
know

Office)

A new mayor has been installed in the Ukrainian city of Melitopol, which is under Russian military control, after the elected
mayor was kidnapped on Friday, according to the Zaporozhye regional administration

Here's what we know about the situation in the city:

Melitopol is a city in southern Ukraine that lies between the besieged city of and the now Russian-occupied city of

. Russian forces occupied Melitopol within days of the invasion beginning, but the city has seen sporadic protests
since.

On Friday, Melitopol mayor, Ivan Fedorov, was seen on video being led away from a government building in the city by armed
men.

A short time later, the Russian-backed Luhansk regional prosecutor claimed that Fedorov had committed terrorism offenses
and was under investigation. According to a message on the Luhansk prosecutor's website, Fedorov is being accused
of assisting and financing terrorist activities and being part of a criminal community.

Fedorov's detention by the armed men is the first known instance of a Ukrainian political official being detained by Russian, or
Russian-backed forces, since the invasion began.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky demanded his immediate release, saying it was "crime against democracy" and
Russia has "switched to a new stage of terror" in its invasion by "trying to physically eliminate representatives of the legitimate
local Ukrainian authorities."

The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry called Fedorov's detention an “abduction” and a “war crime."

Hundreds of people protested the kidnapping outside Melitopo''s city hall, with the crowd chanting "Freedom for the Mayor.”

EE DOLEMAY MENG COPMIMENTYS Tne oes we NY

council.

+ In her televised statement, which was posted by the regional administration on Telegram, Danilchenko said that her "main task
is to take all necessary steps to get the city back to normal."

fay

Tato and Mama gave me a home in Ukraine. Now they're under attack
They're not my parents, but after two years of living in Ukraine, they grew to become my Tato and Mama — Ukrainian for "mom"
and "dad."

Five years ago, they welcomed me into their home like a daughter — now they're living under Russian bombardment, the sound
of shelling punctuating every precious call.

Tato, a white-haired man in his early 60s, tells me on the phone he can see explosions from the front yard of their home in a
small village outside the northern city of Chernihiv. Mama, who's a few years younger, sobs as she tells me they have no water,
no power, and no safe way to leave.

Their only form of transportation is a rundown Soviet-era car that's so rusted you can see the ground rush by through a hole in
the floor. And Mama's 91-year-old mother, Babusya, is so frail she rarely leaves her bed.

Ukrainians in some other cities have been been able to flee their homes, escaping the Russian attacks via temporary evacuation
corridors, but no clear route exists out of Chernihiv or their village.

Just over a week ago, Tato sent me a photo of black smoke billowing into the air from explosions near his village.

"If we survive, maybe we'll see each other," his text read.

Read the full story:

RELATED
‘Tato and Mama gave me a home in Ukraine. Now they're under attack

oO
Zelensky pleads for more aid, says 12,729 Ukrainians successfully evacuated Saturday

(Facebook)

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he was grateful for international support and pleaded with allies for more aid in an
address Saturday.

“| keep reiterating to our allies and friends abroad; they have to keep doing more for our country, for Ukrainians and Ukraine.
Because it is not only for Ukraine, but it is for all of Europe,” he said. “The evil which purposefully targets peaceful cities and
ambulance vans and explodes hospitals will not stop with just one country if they have the strength to keep going.”

Zelensky also said humanitarian corridors in Ukraine have been “working.” announcing 12.729 people were evacuated Saturday.
“all of the humanitarian corridors, by the way, which were agreed to - they have worked,” he said, adding “and then there will be
humanitarian aid to Mariupol [but] because of difficulties, they had to stop in Gdansk.”

Zelensky also vowed to bring Russian occupiers and their sympathizers to justice, saying “all the occupiers and alll the
collaborators will know that Ukraine will not forget. Never, nothing. Ukraine will not forget. Ukraine will find them and will call
them to responsibility, each one of them.”

B
Seven civilians killed while trying to evacuate Kyiv region, Ukrainian Defense Ministry
says

From CNN Staff

Seven civilians, including women and a child, were killed while trying to flee Ukraine's Kyiv region, the Ukrainian Defense Ministry
confirmed Saturday.

"Russians shot at a column of women and children in Kyiv region, who were trying to evacuate along a previously agreed ‘green’
corridor. The result of this brutal act - seven dead. One of them is a child," a tweet from the Ukrainian Defense Ministry said.

However, an update from the Defense intelligence of Ukraine said the civilians were fleeing on a route that was not an agreed-

upon "green corridor.”

The group of women and children were attempting to evacuate near the village of Peremoga in Kyiv on Friday when they were
shot at by Russians, according to Ukraine's intelligence agency.

Russia did not immediately comment on this incident, but has denied targeting civilians since invading Ukraine last month.

B

Chernobyl! nuclear plant running on generators with staff "living" there since Russian
attack

From CNN Staff

This satelite image provided by Maxar Technologies shows a close view of Chernobyl nuclear facilities, Ukraine, on Thursday, March 10. (Satelite image ©2022 Maxar
Technologies)

Repairs to Chernobyl's electrical system, damaged during a Russian attack on March 9, are ongoing, as the nuclear power plant
is now dependent on external diesel generators to keep its reactors operating, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
said Saturday.

Alexey Likhachev, the director general of Russia's nuclear agency Rosatom, told the IAEA additional fuel arrived on March 14.

Ukraine's nuclear power plant operator Energoatom told the IAEA that Chemobyl's 211 personnel and guards "have still not
been able to rotate, in effect living there since the day before Russian forces took control.”

“[IAEA] Director General Grossi has repeatedly stressed the urgent need to ensure they can properly rest and rotate, saying this
is also a vital element for safe and secure nuclear power operation,” IAEA said in a statement.

Regarding the situation at the Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant (NPP), Ukraine said the site remains under Russian control and
that Moscow is planning to take “full and permanent control." It also said 400 Russian soldiers are "present full time” at the site.

Russia said experts are present at the Zaporizhzhya plant but denied it "had taken operational control" or it has plans to take on
permanent management of the site, according to the IAEA.

Power supplies to this plant remain unchanged, despite damage to two of its four power lines, the IAEA said.
The IAEA added eight of Ukraine's 15 reactors remain in operation, "including two at the Zaporizhzhya NPP, three at Rivne, one
at Khmelnytskyy, and two at South Ukraine" and that "radiation levels remain normal.”

oO
New mayor installed in Russia-controlled Melitopol after the Ukrainian city's elected
mayor was detained

The Zaporozhye regional administration says a new mayor has been installed in the Ukrainian city of Melitopol, which is under
Russian military control, after the elected mayor was detained on Friday.

Ivan Fedoroy, the elected mayor of Melitopol, was detained by armed men on Friday and accused of terrorism offenses by the
prosecutor's office for the separatist Russia-backed Luhansk region.

The newly installed mayor is Galina Danilchenko, a former member of the city council, according to a statement on the
Zaporozhye regional administration website.

Danilchenko, who was not elected by the people, was introduced as the acting mayor on local TV, the statement said.

In her televised statement, which was posted by the administration on Telegram, Danilchenko said her "main task is to take all
necessary steps to get the city back to normal.”

She claimed there were people still in Melitopol who would try to destabilize “the situation and provoke a reaction of bad
behavior."

“Lask you to keep your wits about you and not to give in to these provocations," Danilchenko said. "| appeal to the deputies,
elected by the people, on all levels. Since you were elected by the people, it is your duty to care about the well-being of your
citizens."

Danilchenko proposed the creation of a "People's Choice Committee" to "solve all the critical issues for Melitopol and the
Melitopol region.”

B

It's 11 p.m. in Kyiv. Here's what you need to know
‘As a new day nears for Ukraine, these are the latest updates from on the ground:

Russian troops loom near Kyiv: The bulk of Russian ground forces are currently about 15.5 miles from the center of the
Tile

tan nanital the | Ik'e Mi

try af Defence eaid Catiirday:
Significant destruction seen in cities and towns: In Mariupol, satellite imagery showed damage and fires in apartment
buildings and gas stations. An emergency coordinator for Doctors Without Borders told CNN that the city is in "the disaster
phase now."

In Makariy, a village 30 miles west of Kyiv, apparent Russian airstrikes hit apartment complexes, schools and a medical facility.

Ukrai

President Volodymyr Zelensky said "a few small towns just don’t exist anymore. ... They are just gone.”

> Russian-occupied Ukrainian territory Assessed Russian advances*

BELARUS
Chernobyl Nuclear Kursk {Voronezh
Power Plant . :

POLAND
RUSSIA

°
kyiv

HPN. Ms UKRAINE

HUNGARY

Controlled

a i ‘by Russian-
MOLDOVA aes

separatists
since 2014

Krasnodar

Sevastopol Annexed by

Russia in 2014
Black Sea

“Assessments by the Institute for the Study of War show that Russian forces have operated in or launched attacks in these areas,
but they do not control them.

Note: Data as of March 11, 2022 at 3 pm. ET

Source: The Institute for the Study of War with AEI's Crit
Graphic: Renée Rigdon, CNN

Threats Project
Casualties mount: The United Nations has recorded 1,581 civilian casualties — 579 who were killed and 1,002 injured — since
the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24. Among the dead are 42 children, with 54 children among the injured,
according to the UN's latest report on civilian casualties.

French and German leaders speak with Putin: A French official told CNN that Putin seemed still to be "determined to achieve
his objectives in Ukraine” but the fact that he continues to speak to the French and German leaders suggests that "he does not
exclude the possibility of a diplomatic solution altogether.” Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said he was holding out
little hope for a negotiated settlement to end Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

B

Bipartisan delegation of US senators arrives in Poland, meets with US ambassador and
troops

A bipartisan US congressional delegation, including Republican Sens. Rob Portman of Ohio and Roger Wicker of Mississippi and
Democratic Sens. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, arrived Saturday in Warsaw, Poland,
where they met with US Ambassador to Poland Mark Brzezinski and traveled to Rzeszow to meet with US troops from the 82nd
Airborne Division.

The delegation plans "to meet with senior government officials and visit refugee sites to affirm the United States' commitment to
Poland, Ukraine, and other allies in response to Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine," according to a Saturday news release from
Wicker's office.

Senate staff familiar with the trip tell CNN the delegation will also visit the Ukrainian border on Sunday.

B

US sanctions more Russian elite and others in Putin's inner circle

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov looks on during a press conference in Moscow on December 17, 2020. (Natalia Kolesnikova/AFP/
The US Treasury Department on Friday sanctioned additional Kremlin “elites, leaders, oligarchs” and some of their family
members for “enabling Putin’s war against Ukraine,” the department said in a statement.

Those sanctioned included three family members of Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov, Russian
tycoon Viktor Vekselberg and 10 members of the management board of the sanctioned VTB Bank. Also sanctioned were 12
members of the Russian State Duma, including Chairman Vyacheslav Volodin, and the Chairman of Russia's Communist Party
Gennady Zyuganov.

Zyuganov’s sanctioning in particular garnered coverage in Russian state media in ensuing hours. He has since responded,
calling it a “reward” and validation of his efforts to “create peace” and “struggle against Nazism,” echoing Putin's rhetoric for his
justification of the Ukraine invasion.

Peskov was sanctioned on March 3 for being the “lead propagandist” of the Russian Federation. But on Friday, Peskov's wife,
Tatiana Navka, and two of Peskov's adult children - Nikolay Peskov and Elizaveta Peskova - were also sanctioned. Tatiana Navka,
who won a gold medal in ice dancing at the 2006 Olympics, has a "property empire worth more than $10 million,” according to
the Treasury Department statement.

Two of Vekselberg's luxury assets, an Airbus A319-115 aircraft and a yacht named Tango — each valued at approximately $90
h — were identified as blocked property, the statement sai

CNN's Michael Callahan, Maria Angelova and Mariya Knight contributed to this report.

New satellite images show extensive damage in western Mariupol, Ukraine
Alarge fi

New satellite imagery from Maxar Technologies shows the extent of damage caused by military strikes in western Mariupol.
The images were taken on Saturday morning.

In Mariupol's western neighborhood of Zhovteneyvi, a large, still smoldering, crater is seen near the Okko gas station. Smoke
appears to be rising from an apartment complex across the street. The roofs of warehouses down the street also appear to have
large holes in them.

Within the apartment complex, several buildings have sustained significant damage. A debris field can be observed surrounding
some of the buildings with a large smoke plume.

A field just northwest of the gas station shows the impact of craters dotting a snow-covered field. Vehicle tread marks are also
seen.

Just over a mile south, in an industrial area in the Primorskyi neighborhood, a large fire is seen raging.
With relatively clear skies over Mariupol, some of the damage that was reported earlier in the week is coming into clearer focus.

The satellite images show extensive damage at the children's and maternity hospital that was hit by Russian military strikes on
Wednesday.

Mariupol is completely surrounded by Russian and Russian-backed separatist troops. Earlier in the week, CNN published Maxar
satellite images that showed significant damage across the city.

oO
in a "disaster phase now," Doctors Without Borders emergency coordinator

Mariupol i:
says

An emergency coordinator for Doctors Without Borders told CNN that the humanitarian situation in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol
is deteriorating by the day.

"We have staff, MSF [Medecins Sans Frontiéres] staff, who are currently in Mariupol who we've been able to keep contact with,
although that contact is getting harder and harder to keep every day. They confirmed to us there's been no access to clean
drinking water for over a week now," Alex Wade told CNN's Jim Acosta.

"They're using snow and rain water, they're breaking into heating systems to access the water in heating systems, but for many,
water has already run out and so has the food for many people. The only people left with food are those who have stocks
that they're rationing," he said from Vinnytsia, Ukraine.
"| think we can say we're in the disaster phase now," he added.

Staff on the ground in Mariupol have told Wade that people are dying from lack of access to medicine, He said.

"The next phase we will see people who potentially could die from dehydration and hunger or ... fleeing from the city trying to

find food and water and dying from the violence outside the city," he said.

Wade said there's a "sense of panic" in the city right now.

"We had communication with a staff member today who was telling us that they've [been] ... taking the dead bodies of their
neighbors and burying them in their own yards, just so that their own neighbors will have a burial and not remain dead on the
streets," he said.

While evacuation corridors were slated to take place for the city Saturday, the lack of available communication hampers safety
efforts, he said.

"When there are discussions around humanitarian corridors or safe passage out of the city, many people are uninformed
and they don't know about it because there's no communication inside the city. There's no phone network. There's no internet,”
he said.

B

Significant destruction seen in Makariv, a Ukraii

Makariv, Ukraine (From Telegram)

A large swath of Makariy, a village 30 miles west of Kyiv, has sustained significant damage from apparent Russian airstrikes.

CNN geolocated and verified the authenticity of photos posted to social media on Saturday, which show major damage to
apartment complexes, schools and a medical facility.

A stark image from Makariv shows a large hole in the northern walll of an apartment building. Many of the buildings in the photos
have sustained damage on their northern facades, evidence that points to military strikes that hit them being Russian.

Several hundred feet east of that apartment building, a kindergarten also sustained significant damage.

Smoke can be observed still billowing up from the building, the roof has completely caved in and the windows have all been
blown out.

The Russian Ministry of Defence has repeatedly claimed they are not targeting civilians.

At another apartment building just west of the school, another photo shows the roof and a number of upper floor residences
destroyed.

Just south of the school, the Adonis-Makariv Medical and Diagnostic Center is seen on fire. The street in front of it is littered with
debris and the windows have been blown out of the center.

A photo taken on the street in front of the center showed that the debris in front of it is all that remains of the north-facing front
facade of the huilding
Immediately west of the school and medical center, near the center of Makariv, a massive crater was observed in the road. The
medical center can be seen in the background on fire. Next to that crater, another photo shows a residential building with a

grocery store on the ground floor has been hit

In the center of town, a cultural center that also houses government and police offices has been hit by a strike. A portion of the
building was destroyed and a structure on the roof appeared to have been clipped by some sort of munition.

"Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the heroes" was written on a large sign in the front of the building
South of central Makariv, a preschool also sustained significant damage. The windows have been blown out and portions of the
roof appear to be damaged

a
Moscow Stock Exchange will not resume trading next week, Rus:

in Central Bank says

A man walks past the Moscow's stock market building in downtown Moscow on February 28. (Natalia Kolesnikova/AFP/
Russia's Central Bank said Saturday it will not resume trading on the Moscow Stock Exchange in the equity market during the
week of March 14.

The Bank of Russia also said via its website that the foreign currency market will reopen at 10 a.m. local time (2 a.m. ET) on
Monday and commodity trading will also resume then.

As for stock market operations during the week of March 21, the central bank indicated that it will make an announcement at a
later date.

The exchange since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, as the United States, European Union and other Western allies
imposed sanctions and the Russian ruble plunged to record lows against the US dollar.

US vice president warns that Russia's invasion of Ukraine threatens democracy across
Europe

rom CNN's Sam

US Vice President Kamala Harris speaks during a news conference in Bucharest, Romania on March 11. (Andrei Pungovschi/Bloomberg/
US Vice President Kamala Harris highlighted the unity between the US and its NATO and European allies and warned that
Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine poses a threat to all democracies.

"Russia's invasion threatens not just Ukraine's democracy; it threatens democracy and security across Europe," Harris said at
the Democratic National Committee's winter meeting on Saturday in Washington, DC.

"The ocean that separates us will not leave us untouched by this aggression," she
said.

Harris, speaking about her recent trip to Poland and Romania, said she emphasized that the "greatest strength” of the alliance is
its unity.

"The United States stands firmly with the Ukrainian people in defense of the NATO alliance," Harris said to applause from the
crowd.

Harris also told the attendees about meeting with a Moroccan student who had fled Ukraine and the plight of millions of
refugees fleeing the Russian onslaught.
Ukraine's foreign minister doubtful about prospects for negotiated settlement with
Russia
US policy forum. "We have to keep the

nipulate this tra

altogether."
op the conflict.

ia. “We will not forgive them for

Putin still "determined" to achieve his objective in Ukraine, says French presidency
source

Russian President Vladimir Putin's state of mind remains "determined," according to an Elysee source speaking after a Saturday
afternoon phone call among French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Putin.

The source said that since the three leaders last spoke on Thursday, Putin seemed to still be "determined to achieve his
objectives in Ukraine,” but that the fact that he continues to speak to the French and German leaders suggests that "he does
not exclude the possibility of a diplomatic solution altogether.”

A source Close to Macron and familiar with the conversation told CNN's Jim Acosta that Macron was disappointed with Putin's

ag

es

ee
etnies eae

ee
including coordinated sanctions, banning Russia from activity within the international community, and a “continued firm and
denuding dialogue.”

Earlier Saturday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky asked Macron to press Putin for a ceasefire and to raise the issue of
the detention of the mayor of Melitopol. The source said Macron and Scholz had done so.

"We pleaded for an immediate ceasefire,” the source said, "and for the start of negotiations on three points: the questions
relative to security, those that relate to Ukrainian sovereignty and third, those issues raised by both Ukraine and Russia
recently."

Further sanctions are being planned by both the G7 and the European Union, the source said. The fresh European sanctions will
be discussed next week in Brussels and will be aimed at sanctioning recent actions by Russian troops in Ukraine, the siege of
Mariupol and the advance of Russian troops along the Dniepr River.

Asked about the possibility of European sanctions on Russian energy exports, the source repeated what Macron had said at the
leader's summit in Versailles on Friday that nothing was "taboo," with no option off the table.

CNN's Jim Acosta contributed to this report.

B

UN says there have been more than 1,500 civilian casualties — inclu
killed — in Ukraine so far

The United Nations has recorded 1,581 civilian casualties — 579 who were killed and 1,002 injured — since the start of the
Russian invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24.

‘Among the dead are 42 children, with 54 children among the injured, according to the UN's latest report on civilian casualties.
The largest number of victims was recorded in areas still under Ukrainian government control.

"Most of the civilian casualties recorded were caused by the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including
shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and missile and air strikes," according to the UN report.

The organization's human rights office believes the actual number of casualties is "considerably higher especially in
Government-controlled territory and especially in recent days" after reports of intense hostilities in regions such as Kharkiv,
Mariupol and Donetsk, "where there are allegations of hundreds of civilian casualties.”
Russia sends warning to the US about transferring weapons to Ukraine, according to
state media

Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov warned the United States about the potential consequences of transferring
weapons to Ukraine, saying convoys with foreign weapons would be "legitimate targets.”

Ryabkov made these comments on Saturday on the state-run Channel One, according to Russia’s state-owned RIA Novosti
news agency.

“We warned the United States that pumping Ukraine with weapons from a number of countries orchestrated by them is not just
a dangerous move, but these are actions that turn the corresponding convoys into legitimate targets,” he added

Read more about the US and its NATO allies' efforts to assist Ukraine:

RELATED
How the US is trying to help Ukraine without triggering a wider war with Russia

oO

All of Ukraine is "a front line," Zelensky says, adding some "small towns just don’t exist
anymore"

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky holds a press conference in Kyiv, Ukraine on March 42. (Emin Sansar/Anadolu Agency/
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said his country is more united than ever as it faces the Russian invasion.
“This war, a difficult war, has truly united our nation. You are asking me how's the situation on the front line ... there’s a front line

everywhere,” Zelensky said in a briefing on Saturday.

“A few small towns just don't exist anymore. And this is a tragedy. They are just gone. And people are also gone. They are
gone forever. So we are all on the front line. The people who died there, they died among us,” he said.

Zelensky said Ukraine has lost approximately 1,300 troops as of Saturday.
He added that negotiations to end Russia's invasion of Ukraine “must begin with a ceasefire.”

“Our diplomats are working on the details of the agenda of the possible meeting of Ukrainian and Russian delegations," he said.
“Lwould like this to happen. So we can actually, not just on words, start the process of settlement, peace and the end of war.”

“This is how the end to war starts in a civilized world,” he said.

se ND EI OIL OOD IDI OI NOES LID IIL ELS Te EOE NS

“pleased” with signals from the Russian Federation.

The Ukrainian president said he was hoping diplomacy could bring peace, saying there was “a signal” coming from the Russian
side about being ready to negotiate, although he gave no details on what this signal was.

Zelensky emphasized that Western partners need to be more involved in discussions and even provide their own security
guarantees to Ukraine, as Ukraine will “never be able to trust Russia after such a bloody war.”

He hit out at NATO nations for its reluctance to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine, saying that the members “lack the courage to
come together for Ukraine” and that there is “no agreed position” on whether Ukraine can join the alliance. Zelensky said his
country is grateful for the bilateral support Ukraine has received from certain NATO countries but added that his country is
“suffering now.”

RELATED
No diplomatic off-ramp in sight for Russia's war in Ukraine

oO
White House directs additional $200 million drawdown for defense services to Ukraine

In a memorandum Saturday, US President Joe Biden delegated Secretary of State Antony Blinken to direct the drawdown of
$200 million in defense articles and services, including military education and training, for Ukraine.

Per the Department of Defense, the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA) allows a president to authorize the “disposition of
United States property or services,” a drawdown, to foreign nations without legislative authority or budgetary appropriations,
which is typically deployed in case of an emergency in a foreign country or region.

Under such circumstances, an “ad hoc interagency process” including representatives from the National Security Council,
Department of Defense and State Department “determines which existing statutory authority applies to the situation and
identifies which articles and services should be provided” — in this case, education and training for Ukrainian military forces.

Per a White House official, today’s announcement brings the total amount of security assistance provided to Ukraine to $1.2
billion in the past year. Earlier this month, the administration authorized a $350 million drawdown package, which another
official told reporters constitutes “the largest presidential drawdown package in history.”

a

LOD LL OEE

This will include “anti-armor, anti-aircraft systems, and smalll arms in support of Ukraine's front line defenders facing down
Russia’s unprovoked attack,” the official said.

CNN's Arlette Saenz contributed to this report.

B

Ukrainian officials accuse Russians of planning a referendum for
southern region
independence" in

A senior Ukrainian official in the southern region of Kherson, which is now under Russian occupation, has said that the Russians
are pressing the regional council to agree to a referendum on the area's "independence" from Ukraine.

Serhiy Khlan, a deputy of the Kherson regional council, said "the occupiers are preparing a referendum on the creation of the
People's Republic of Kherson."

He said local deputies were being called to ask if they are ready for "cooperation."
"| flatly refused to co-operate with them," Khlan said.
"The creation of the People's Republic of Kherson will turn our region into a hopeless hole without life and future."

He urged deputies to refuse to cooperate.

After Russian-backed separatists took control in 2014 of parts of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions, people's republics were
declared in both areas.

There's been no word from the Russian side about any referendum plans.

B

Former Ukrainian president calls Putin "war criminal," says Ukraine will keep fighting

Former Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko speaks with CNN on Saturday. (CNN)

Former Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko called Russian President Vladimir Putin a "war criminal” and said Ukrainian forces
will not give up as Russian troops are now estimated to be from Kyiv.

"Please don't trust Putin, please don't trust Russia. | think Putin is a war criminal. ... He is a mad person," Poroshenko told CNN
while stationed with Ukrainian forces in the capital city.

"But we have less and less ammunition and ... we are not giving up. We are not forgive the Putin this type of things and |

am absolutely confident that we will fight in every single house, every single street, and every single quarter in Kyiv, in Kharkiv ...
in all of the cities would be the hell for the Russian soldiers and would be at the end of the day the hell for Putin," Poroshenko
said to CNN's Anderson Cooper.

“He underestimate unity of Ukraine and that he cannot blow up, cannot break our
unity," he added.

He added that "only five nations support Russia" while "141 nations support Ukraine" — referring to the
to condemn Russia's invasion of Ukraine — and said that Ukraine is providing "the end of the Russian Empire.”
Poroshenko also said that Ukraine needs more military supplies from the West.

"We are ready to fight but we do not need your soldiers. But we need everything: military jet, antitank, anti-aircraft missiles,
from nutrition to ammunition, everything," Poroshenko said

Poroshenko also referred to the Kremlin's about bioweapons in Ukraine as "propaganda."

"Me as a president of Ukraine can guarantee no chemical, no bacteriological weapons; Ukraine don't have, don't have it before
and not planning to have it in the future. This is definitely confirmed. This is classical, very important example of the
Russian propaganda," he said.

B
Germany registers nearly 123,000 refugees from Ukraine

Ukrainian refugees queue for food after their arrival at the main train station in Berlin, Germany on March 8. (Michael Sohn/AP)

While nearly 123,000 refugees have arrived in Germany from Ukraine since the beginning of the Russian invasion late last month,
the absence of border checks at the country's border with Poland where most Ukrainian refugees are coming from could mean
the number is significantly higher, according to Germany's foreign minister.

Germany is working with its allies to airlift people who have fled Ukraine to countries farther away as Ukraine's neighboring
countries struggle to cope with all new arrivals from the war-stricken country, Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said.

Baerbock told reporters in Chisinau alongside her Moldovan counterpart that Germany will take in 2,500 refugees from Ukraine
who are currently in Moldova.

According to data from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, 2.5 million people have fled Ukraine since the Russian attack
on Ukraine.

aRussia claims ownership of Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant, Ukrainian management
says
Russian officials have arrived to Ukraine's largest nuclear power plant, demanding to take control of the facility, according to a
statement from Energoatom, Ukraine's state-operated nuclear energy company.

Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Station has been occupied by Russian forces for more than a week now, with Energoatom
previously claiming its employees have been forced to work at "gunpoint.”

Energoatom said 11 people from Rosatom, the Russian state atomic energy company, arrived to the plant on Friday and that a
representative of the group said the plant now belonged to Rosatom.

“According to a representative of this group, they were sent to assess nuclear and radiation safety after the shelling and
seizure of the station, as well as to provide assistance with repairs,” the statement said.

“another reason for their appearance was voiced as the refusal of the pro-Ukrainian leadership and ZNPP personnel to
cooperate with the invaders,” it added.

The statement said that two top-level engineers from Russian nuclear power plants in Balakovo and Rostov were among the 11
Russians that arrived on Friday.

The statement said that all six power units at the plant are in operation, but added that the station management is forced to
agree on all technical issues with the Russians

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said Saturday that two of the plant’s four high voltage offsite power lines have
been damaged, but that the amount of power the plant needs in order to keep operating safely can be provided with one line
available.

Rosatom has not commented on the issue.

B

Ukrainian deputy PM calls on leading Taiwanese electronics manufacturer to cease
business with Russia

An ASUS sign is seen inside a shop in Tehran, Iran in 2021. (Morteza Nikoubazl/NurPhoto/
Ukraine Deputy Prime Minister Mykhailo Fedorov, who is also the minister for digital transformation, called on leading Taiwanese
electronics manufacturer ASUS to cease operation and business ties with Russia as its invasion into Ukraine continues,
according to an open letter posted on Fedorov's Twitter on Thursday.

In the letter addressed to ASUS Chairman Jonney Shih, Fedorov called on the company and its affiliates to “end any
relationships and stop doing business” in Russia, as well as cease relationships with Russia-based clients and partners,
including “supplying hardware and electronics, providing technical support and services,” until “Russian aggression in Ukraine is
fully stopped and fair order is restored.”

“The IT industry always supports values of responsibility and democracy. We believe, your company also shares them. Now,
responsibility is the choice, the choice that defines the future. And now, more than ever, people's lives depend on your
choice,” Federov wrote.

“Russian tanks and missiles continue killing peaceful Ukrainians! @ASUS, Russians have no moral right to use your brilliant
technology! It's for peace, not for war!" Fedrov said in a tweet preceding the letter.

This is the first Taiwanese multinational corporation directly called on by Ukrainian senior officials to cut business ties with
Russia in relation to the invasion.

A review of Fedorov's Twitter activity shows that since Russia's invasion, he has publicly called on a range of high-profile
companies - including Microsoft, Apple, Google, Visa, Mastercard and Netflix - to ban Russian access to their products and
services.

CNN reached out to ASUS for comment. According to Taiwan's state-run Central News Agency, ASUS said earlier on Saturday it
“would not respond at this time.”

Last Tuesday, Taiwan senior officials said it will join moves to block some Russian banks from the SWIFT international payments
system, and it will “scrutinize” products exported to Russia in accordance with the Wassenaar Arrangement - which regulates
export controls for weapons and dual-use goods and technologies - and won't permit such exports “unless there are legitimate
reasons.”

RELATED
Here are the companies pulling back from Russia

Vatican says it's available for "any kind of mediation" to help stop war in Ukraine

B
People hold a Ukrainian flag in St. Peter's Square at the Vatican on March 6. (Riccardo De Luca/Anadolu Agency/
The Vatican is willing to do “everything possible” to assist in reaching a ceasefire and brokering an end to the war in Ukraine.

The Holy See is “available for any kind of mediation,” said Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the Vatican's secretary of state, in an interview
with Vatican News.

Parolin repeated Pope Francis’ appeal for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine during a telephone conversation with Russian
Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov this week.

“| asked for an end to the fighting and for a negotiated solution to the conflict. | insisted on respect for the civilian population
and on humanitarian corridors,” Parolin said, and he repeated the Pope's rejection of Moscow's claim that the war is a military
operation. “Words are important, and to define what is happening in Ukraine as a military operation is to fail to recognize the
reality of the facts. We are facing a war, which unfortunately claims many civilian victims, as all wars do.”

The Pope's “unprecedented gesture” of visiting the Russian embassy to the Vatican the day after the invasion of Ukraine was a
“personal step” in order to “express to the authorities in Moscow his concern about the escalation of the war,” Parolin said. War
is “madness,” he said, and appealed to the “consciences” of all people involved to cease fighting immediately.

“We have before our eyes the terrible images coming from Ukraine. The victims among the civilians, women, elderly people,
and defenseless children who have paid with their lives for the folly of war. The anguish grows as we see cities with gutted
houses, no electricity, sub-zero temperatures, lack of food and medicine, as well as millions of refugees, mostly women and
children, fleeing the bombs. Over the last few days, | have come across a group of them, who have arrived in Italy from various
parts of Ukraine: blank stares, faces without smiles, endless sadness. ... What is the fault of those young mothers and their
children? We would have to possess a heart of stone in order to remain impassive and allow this havoc to continue, as rivers
of blood and tears continue to flow. War is a barbarity,” he said.

It is “never too late,” to make peace, he urged. “It is never too late to retrace one's steps and find an agreement.”

B

IJolonclky claime Iibraing ic inflicting "hinnoct hinw tn tho Birccian army in daradac"

NB SS eet ~ 2 ~ Deeieeieate

SESE

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky speaks during a video address on March 42. (Facebook)

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has claimed that are inflicting the “biggest blow to Russia's army in
decades.”

In a Facebook video address Saturday Zelensky said 31 Russian tactical battalion groups have lost capability, and more than
Flying on Russian planes is about to get much more dangerous

As Russia's economy gets pummeled by increasingly severe western sanctions for its invasion of Ukraine, the country’s crucial
airlines have been essentially cut off from much of the world.

But that is the least of the industry's problems. Russia's domestic airline industry could soon become a mere shell of its former
self due to restrictions on its operations.

Sanctions imposed by the United States and the European Union mean that the world's two major aircraft
makers, Boeing (BA) and Airbus (EADSF), can no longer supply spare parts or maintenance support for Russian airlines. The
same is true of jet engine makers.

"within a year Russia will cease to have any kind of viable airline industry,” said Richard Aboulafia, managing director of
AeroDynamic Advisory.

He said the country's airline industry could soon find itself somewhere between the heavily sanctioned industries in Iran and
North Korea.

That poses a serious problem for Russia's overall economic activity.

Russia is the world's largest nation by landmass, more than twice the size of the continental United States. It needs to have a
viable airline industry to keep its economy working, said Charles Lichfield, the deputy director of GeoEconomics Center at the
Atlantic Council, an international think tank.
remain in place,” Lichfield added.

Read the full story:

Sj RELATED

Flying on Russian planes is about to get much more dangerous

Call between Putin and French and German leaders is underway

French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz have started a calll with Russian President Vladimir
Putin over the war in Ukraine, an Elysée source told CNN on Saturday.

The three men previously spoke on Thursday when Macron said that the conditions put forth by Russian President
Vladimir Putin for a ceasefire in Ukraine were “not acceptable to anyone,” without specifying what Putin's conditions were.

Macron has spoken frequently to Putin in the last month but has had little success in deescalating the crisis.