Ukraine latest updates: 2,187
residents killed in Mariupol

Jkraine news from March 13: About 100 aerial bombs
have been dropped on Mariupol as Russian forces
blockade the city, authorities say.

ombs have been dropped on Mariupol, Ukraine since Rus:
Ukraine says more than 5,550 people
evacuated from front-line cities
More than 5,550 people have been evacuated from front-line cities on
Sunday via nine humanitarian corridors, Ukraine’s deputy prime
minister Iryna Vereshchuk said in a video statement.

She added 3,950 were evacuated from towns and cities in the Kyiv
region.

China says priority is to stop Ukraine crisis
getting out of control

China’s priority is to prevent the tense situation in Ukraine from
getting out of control, its embassy in the United States said,
responding to media reports that Moscow had asked Beijing for
military equipment.

“The current situation in Ukraine is indeed disconcerting,”
spokesperson Liu Pengyu said in a statement.

“The high priority now is to prevent the tense situation from escalating
or even getting out of control.”


Privacy Policy

Kyiv confirms talks with Moscow on
Monday

Video-conference talks will take place on Monday between Ukraine
and Russia, Mykhailo Podoliak, an adviser to Ukrainian President
Volodymyr Zelensky and part of the negotiating team, has said.

His statement on Twitter confirmed an earlier statement by Dmitry
Peskov, the spokesman for the Russian presidency.

IAEA concerned about Chornobyl safety
despite reparations

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has expressed
concern over the safety of the Chornobyl Nuclear Power Plant (NPP),
despite news of the resumption of external electricity supplies
following the reparation of a damaged power line.

“This is a positive development as the Chornobyl NPP has had to rely
on emergency diesel generators for several days now,” IAEA Director
General Grossi said. “However, I remain gravely concerned about
safety and security at Chornobyl and Ukraine’s other nuclear
facilities.”

The plant is working on back-up diesel generators and will be
reconnected to the Ukrainian electricity grid In the morning on
Monday, according to IAEA.

The UN nuclear watchdog also said staff operating radioactive waste
facilities at Chernobyl had stopped carrying out safety-related repairs
due to exhaustion, since they have not been relieved since Russia
seized the site last month.

Ukraine using Al's facial recognition during
war

Ukraine’s defence ministry has begun using Clearview Al’s facial
recognition technology, the company’s chief executive told Reuter.

After the US startup offered to uncover Russian assailants, combat
misinformation and identify the dead, Ukraine is receiving free access
to Clearview AI’s powerful search engine for faces, letting authorities
potentially vet people of interest at checkpoints, among other uses.

Clearview, which had not offered the technology to Russia, said it had
more than 2 billion images from the Russian social media service

VKontakte at its disposal, out of a database of over 10 billion photos
total.

ICRC warns Mariupol facing ‘worst-case
scenario

The Red Cross is warning of a “worst-case scenario” for hundreds of
thousands of civilians in the besieged city of Mariupol unless warring
parties agree to ensure their safety and access to humanitarian aid.

The head of the International Committee of the Red Cross, Peter
Maurer, said in a statement that residents “have endured a weeks-long
life-and-death nightmare”.

“Dead bodies, of civilians and combatants, remain trapped under the
rubble or lying in the open where they fell,” Maurer said. “Life-
changing injuries and chronic, debilitating conditions cannot be
treated. The human suffering is simply immense.”

The Geneva-based humanitarian agency called on the parties to agree
on the terms of a ceasefire, routes for safe passage, and to ensure the
deal is respected. It offered to act as a neutral intermediary in
negotiations.

Kremlin says next Russia-Ukraine talks to
take place on Monday

Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov has said talks between Russia
and Ukraine will resume on Monday, the RIA news agency reported.

Peskov said talks were not taking place at the moment, contrary to an
earlier statement by Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy
Arestovych.
Ukraine presidential adviser says talks with
Russia going on ‘right now’

Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych has said talks
between Ukraine and Russia are ongoing, with the situation around

the besieged city of Mariupol a particular focus for Ukrainian
authorities.

“Talks are continuing right now,” he said in an interview on national
television.

Arestovych added Ukraine had enough troops deployed in Mariupol to
prevent its capture by encircling Russian forces.

‘Stop attacks on healthcare’ in Ukraine: UN
agencies

The World Health Organization, the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) have

issued a joint statement calling for an immediate stop to attacks on
healthcare in Ukraine.

“Today, we call for an immediate cessation of all attacks on healthcare
in Ukraine,” they said. “These horrific attacks are killing and causing
serious injuries to patients and health workers, destroying vital health

infractricinre and forcing thancands tn forgo acceccinge health cervirec
despite catastrophic needs.

Ukraine says power has been restored to
Chernobyl power station

Power has been restored to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which
means cooling systems can operate normally and not have to use a

backup system, according to Ukraine’s atomic energy ministry.

The ministry made the announcement in an online post. Ukraine had
earlier warned of an increased risk of a radiation leak if a high-voltage
power line to the plant were not repaired.

Ukraine president visits wounded soldiers
in hospital, awards medals

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has stepped outside his
residence for the first time since war erupted to visit wounded soldiers
in hospital and award medals.

“Get well. I wish you strength. You are great guys!” Zelenskyy is heard
saying to the patients in a morale-boosting video posted on social

media.

So far, pictures and footage of the president had shown him only in his
office or official residence.

olexander scherbas™ @ v
@olex_scherba
President #VolodymyrZelensky visiting wounded soldiers,
awarding medals.

#StandWithUkraine #UkraineUnderAttack #PutinsWar
#UkraineWillWin #FreelvanFedorov #PoccuaCmotpu

Photos: Curtain closes on Paralympics as
China and Ukraine star

Beijing’s winter Paralympic Games has closed following a ban on
Russian and Belarusian competitors — and after stellar performances
from athletes from host nation China and from war-torn Ukraine.

At the “Bird’s Nest” stadium in the capital on Sunday, China handed
the Paralympics flag to Italy’s Milano Cortina, which is gearing up to

stage the games in four years.

See the pictures here.
Russia says Yavoriv strike hit ‘foreign
mercenaries’
Russia has said the strike on a Ukrainian base in Yavoriv, near the

Polish border, killed “up to 180 foreign mercenaries” and destroyed a
large amount of weapons supplied by outside nations.

Russian Defence Ministry Spokesperson Igor Konashenkov told a
briefing that Russia would continue its attacks against foreign citizens
who had joined Kyiv’s army, which he called foreign mercenaries.

Ukrainian regional governor Maksym Kozytskyy earlier had provided a
different death toll, saying 35 people had been killed.

Kurt Volker, a former United Nations ambassador to NATO, told Al
Jazeera that the attack was a sign that Russian President Vladimir
Putin was “getting more reckless”.

“He knows it was risky, just 20 kilometres north he could have hit
Poland,” which is a NATO member, Volker said. “It’s reflecting a very
dangerous and I think a very desperate state of mind.”

US says Russia will pay ‘severe price’ in
case of chemical attack

White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan has warned that
Russia will pay a “severe price” if it launches a chemical weapon attack

a. re
Sullivan told CBS’s Face the Nation programme that the United States
and its allies were consulting closely about the increasing threat of a
chemical weapons attack and were communicating directly with
Moscow to warn against any such move.

“The use of weapons of mass destruction would be a shocking
additional line that Putin is crossing in terms of his assault on
international law and international norms,” he said.

Sullivan also warned that any attack on NATO territory would trigger a
full response by the Western alliance.

Russia continues its sieges on Ukrainian cities ld
Share:

ALJAZEERA
mu

UKRAINE WAR
Taal i((=-ManteleleaMaat=yi mi-li (stale) (el (15-4

Turkey, Greece agree to improve ties amid
Ukraine conflict
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Greek Prime Minister
Kyriakos Mitsotakis have agreed in talks on Sunday to improve ties, as
both seek regional stability after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

“Despite the disagreements between Turkey and Greece, it was agreed.
at the meeting to keep communication channels open and to improve
bilateral relations,” the Turkish presidency said in a statement.

“Turkey and Greece have a special responsibility in the changing
European security architecture with Russia’s attack on Ukraine.”

Russia showing signs of interest in Ukraine
talks: US

Russia is showing signs of a willingness to engage in substantive
negotiations over Ukraine, US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy
Sherman has said.

In an interview with the programme Fox News Sunday, Sherman said
the United States is putting “enormous pressure” on Russian President
Vladimir Putin to agree to a ceasefire and to allow the creation of
humanitarian corridors to permit civilians to escape.

“That pressure is beginning to have some effect. We are seeing some
signs to have real, serious negotiations. But I have to say ... so far it
appears Vladimir Putin is intent on destroying Ukraine,” Sherman
added.
US warns China of consequences if it helps
Russia evade sanctions

US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan has warned Beijing that it
will “absolutely” face consequences if it helps Moscow evade sweeping
sanctions over the war in Ukraine.

“We are communicating directly, privately to Beijing, that there will
absolutely be consequences,” Sullivan said in an interview with CNN.
“We will not allow that to go forward and allow there to be a lifeline to
Russia from these economic sanctions from any country, anywhere in
the world.”

Sullivan is expected to meet China's top diplomat Yang Jiechi in Rome
on Monday as part of a broader effort by the world’s two largest
economies to maintain open channels of communication.

More than 2.6 million flee Ukraine war: UN
The number of refugees fleeing Ukraine is nearing 2.7 million,

according to a United Nations tally.

The UN High Commissioner for Refugees said there were 2,698,280
refugees who had fled Ukraine so far, 100,700 more than the last
count on Saturday.

Initial UN estimates estimated four million people could flee the war.
That figure is likely to be revised upwards, the UN refugee agency said.

RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR
Where are people fleeing to?

The UN says more than 2.6 million people, mostly women and children, fled Ukraine
since Russia invaded. Most sought refuge in neighbouring countries.

Day 18 | 14:00 GMT

Russians fire warning shots at protesters in
seized city: Report
Russian troops have fired warning shots as thousands demonstrated in

the southern city of Kherson, which was seized by the Russian army
earlier this month, a local broadcaster reported.

Waving national flags and chanting “Kherson is for Ukraine” and
“Glory to Ukraine’, several thousand protesters gathered in a show of
defiance on the central Freedom Square, the Suspilne Kherson public
broadcaster reported.

Protesters marched down a central boulevard past a line of Russian
armoured vehicles marked with the “Z” symbol, a witness video posted
by Suspilne Kherson on Telegram showed.

Livestreamed footage shows protesters taking to the streets in Kherson [
Russian troops attempting to block off Kyiv

Russian troops are trying to block off Kyiv from the east, in addition to
other access points, as part of their siege on the capital, the Ukrainian
army has said.

Russian units had crossed the E95 route in the direction of the suburbs
Brovary and Boryspil, while to the northwest and northeast of the city,
Russia was gathering forces for an advance.

Al Jazeera’s Imran Khan, reporting from Kyiv, said the streets of the

capital were empty as people bunkered down. Everyone is “preparing
for the worst and hoping for the best”, Khan said.

Russia and Ukraine give brightest
assessment yet of progress in talks

ANUS OTR AAU RE AMM AL OLIRLALS LAVE SSS Stet tale tibtolit yici
positive results within days.

“We will not concede in principle on any positions. Russia now
understands this. Russia is already beginning to talk constructively,”
Ukrainian negotiator and presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said
in a video posted online.

“I think that we will achieve some results literally in a matter of days,”
he said.

RIA news agency quoted a Russian delegate, Leonid Slutsky, as saying
the talks had made substantial progress.

“According to my personal expectations, this progress may grow in the
coming days into a joint position of both delegations, into documents
for signing,” Slutsky said.

Nearly 125,000 civilians evacuated, aid on
the way to Mariupol: Zelenskyy

Ukraine’s president says nearly 125,000 civilians have been evacuated
through safe-passage corridors, while a convoy with humanitarian aid
is on its way to the besieged city of Mariupol.

“The main task today is Mariupol. Our convoy with humanitarian aid
is two hours away from Mariupol. Only 8okm [left],” President

Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video address.

“We're doing everything to counter occupiers who are even blocking
Orthodox priests accompanying this aid, food, water and medicine.
There are 100 tonnes of the most necessary things that Ukraine sent to
its citizens,” Zelenskyy said.

Ukraine’s besieged port city of Mariupol was running out of its last
reserves of food and water, the city council said, adding that Russian
forces blockading the city continued to shell non-military targets.

American journalist shot dead in Irpin

An American journalist has been shot dead and another wounded in
Irpin, a northwest suburb of Kyiv.

Papers found on the American reporter’s body identified him as 50-
year-old video documentary shooter Brent Renaud, of New York.

A New York Times identity card was among the papers, leading to
reports he worked for the paper, but the US daily said he was not
working for it at the time of his death.

Al Jazeera’s Imran Khan, reporting from Kyiv, said “Irpin is an active
front line at the moment.”

Russian forces are aiming to take over the towns of Irpin and Bucha
and to use them as launchpads for further attacks on the capital, Khan

said.


& Cliff Levy @ . SF
y @cliffordievy
-@nytimes is deeply saddened to learn of the death
of an American journalist in Ukraine, Brent Renaud.
Brent was a talented photographer and filmmaker,
but he was not on assignment for @nytimes in
Ukraine.
Full statement is here.

lented photographer and filmmaker who had

Ukraine human rights ombudswoman
accuses Russia of using phosphorus
munitions

Ukraine’s human rights ombudswoman accused Russia of using
banned phosphorus munitions in an overnight attack on the town of
Popasna in Ukraine’s eastern Luhansk region. The statement could not
be verified.
The ombudswoman, Liudmila Denisova, shared a photograph
purporting to show the alleged attack, but did not say if Ukraine had
concrete evidence.

“The bombing of a civilian city by the Russian attackers with these
weapons is a war crime and a crime against humanity according to the
Rome convention,” she said in an online statement.

Bus full of Ukrainian refugees overturns in
Italy; one dead

A bus carrying about 50 Ukrainian refugees overturned on a major
highway in northern Italy at dawn on Sunday, killing one person,
Italian firefighters said.

Italian state TV said there were also five people injured, but none of
the injuries was serious, in the accident on the A14 autostrada near
Forli’, a town in the Emilia-Romagna region in northeastern Italy. It
said the rest of those aboard were safely evacuated.

Italy’s Interior Ministry said the bus had set out from Ukraine and was
heading south to Pescara, an Adriatic port city, when it overturned.
Some 35,000 Ukrainians refugees who fled war in their homeland
have entered Italy, most of them through its northeastern border with
Slovenia.

What caused the bus to overturn was under investigation.
More than 250 detained in Ukraine protests
across Russia

Russia detained more than 250 people for protesting against Moscow's
war in Ukraine.

OVD-Info, which monitors arrests during protests, said police had
detained 268 people during demonstrations in 23 Russian cities.

An AFP journalist present at a protest in the capital Moscow witnessed
at least a dozen arrests and said police were taking away anybody
without press papers.

Last weekend, police arrested more than 5,000 protesters across
Russia. Protesters risk fines and possible prison sentences by taking to
the streets.



Police officers have detained demonstrators protesting against Russian military action
in Ukraine. [AFP] (AFP)

Pope calls Ukraine invasion ‘armed
aggression’

Pope Francis has issued his toughest condemnation yet of the war in
Ukraine, saying the “unacceptable armed aggression” must stop.

Speaking during his Sunday blessing to thousands of people in St
Peter’s Square in Vatican City in Rome, Francis also said the bombing
of hospitals and other civilian targets was “barbaric” and with “no
valid strategic reason”.

“In the name of God I ask you: stop this massacre!” he said, adding
that Ukrainian cities risked “being reduced to cemeteries”.

At least 35 people killed in attack on
Ukraine base, says Lviv governor

At least 35 people have been killed and 134 wounded in a Russian air
strike on a large Ukrainian military training ground near the Polish
border, according to the regional governor oi the western Lviv region,
Maksym Kozytskyy.

The previous death toll announced was nine.

More than 30 Russian cruise missiles targeted the sprawling training
facility that is less than 25km (16 miles) from the closest border point
with Poland.

Qatar calls on all parties to ‘exercise
restraint’ over Ukraine

Qatar's foreign minister has called on all parties to “exercise restraint”
and to avoid further escalation over Ukraine in a phone call with his
Ukrainian counterpart, according to a Qatari foreign ministry
statement.

Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani told
Ukraine’s Dmytro Kuleba that Qatar urged “all parties to exercise
restraint, resolve disputes through constructive dialogue and
diplomatic methods, and to settle international disputes by peaceful
means,” the statement said.

Qatari Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani talked

to his Ukrainian counterpart [File: Tom Finn/Reuters]

Russia's Gazprom continues gas shipments
via Ukraine
Russian natural gas company Gazprom has said that it was continuing

gas shipments via Ukraine.

The shipments’ volume stands at 109.6 million cubic metres, up from
More than 25 ambulances seen around
attacked Ukraine base: Reuters
Nineteen ambulances with sirens blaring have been seen driving from
the direction of Ukraine's Yavoriv military base near the Polish border,
Reuters news agency reported, after local officials said the facility was
hit by a Russian air strike.

A further seven ambulances were seen driving towards the facility after
what appeared to be the westernmost attack of the war.

‘Shameful’: UK's response to Ukraine
refugee crisis criticised

Displaced Ukrainians have reported endless red tape and delays while
applying for visas in the United Kingdom.

They say the British government sometimes requires them to wait
weeks or travel hundreds of kilometres to centres in Ukraine or
neighbouring countries to submit biometric data.



Lviv governor says nine killed in Russian
attack on base

The governor of Ukraine’s Lviv region has said that nine people were
killed and 57 others were wounded in an air strike on a military facility
in te county s west.

Foreign military instructors worked at the Yavoriv military facility
near the Polish border that was hit by the attack, Ukrainian Defence
Minister Oleksii Reznikov said, but it was not clear if any were present
at the time.

Smoke rises amid damaged buildings following an attack on the Yavoriv military base.

[@BackAndAlive/
Russia's invasion of Ukraine: List of key
events from day 18

As Russia’s attempt to invade Ukraine enters its 18th day, we take a
look at the main developments that took place in the last 24 hours.
Acad more Here.

Red Cross: Mariupol residents don't have
access to water

Mariupol in eastern Ukraine has been cut off from the rest of the world
for almost two weeks and no one is allowed in or out amid intense
fighting, with vehicles full of aid waiting in the outskirts of the city.

Jason Straziuso of the International Committee of the Red Cross told
Al Jazeera that there are thousands of families in dire conditions

without water in Mariupol.

“Even our team is collecting water from streams ... but how does
everyone do that ... especially if you are elderly,” he said.

‘Hell’ in Ukraine's Mariupol as Russians ‘attaekjevery 30 mi.

ALJAZEERA

RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR
J at=) Take MiaWueelalel oxe)|

Russian army attempt to surround
Ukrainian forces in east: UK intelligence

Russian forces are attempting to surround Ukrainian forces in the east
of the country as they advance from the direction of Kharkiv in the
north and Mariupol in the south, according to Britain’s defence
ministry.

“Russian forces advancing from Crimea are attempting to circumvent
Mykolaiv as they look to drive west towards Odesa,” the ministry said
in an intelligence update posted on Twitter.

NATO chief says Russia may use chemical
weapons: German paper

NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has said Russia might use
chemical weapons following its invasion of Ukraine and that such a
move would be a war crime, according to an interview in German
newspaper Welt am Sonntag.

“In recent days, we have heard absurd claims about chemical and
biological weapons laboratories,” Stoltenberg was quoted by Welt am
Sonntag as saying, adding that the Kremlin was inventing false
pretexts to justify what could not be justified.

“Now that these false claims have been made, we must remain vigilant
because it is possible that Russia itself could plan chemical weapons
operations under this fabrication of lies. That would be a war crime,”
Stoltenberg was quoted as saying.

NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says there are absurd claims about chemical
and biological weapons laboratories in Russia [File: Hannibal Hanschke/Pool 
Air strike launched on army base near
Poland: Lviv authorities

An air strike has been launched on a Ukrainian military base Yavoriv
in the west of the country near the Polish border, according to the Lviv
regional military administration.

“The occupiers launched an air strike on the International Center for
reacekeeping and security. According to preiminary data, they read
eight missiles,” the administration said in a statement.

The centre, less than 25km (16 miles) from the Polish border, did not
say whether it had been hit. It said it would release details later.

Zelenskyy warns Russia it will have to raze
Kyiv to take it

Zelenskyy has warned Russian forces they face a fight to the death if
they try to occupy the capital Kyiv, as air raid sirens again woke
residents on Sunday morning.

“If they decide to carpet bomb and simply erase the history of this
region ... and destroy all of us, then they will enter Kyiv. If that’s their
goal, let them come in, but they will have to live on this land by
themselves,” Zelenskyy said late on Saturday.

Saying about 1,300 Ukrainian troops had been killed, he urged the
West to get more involved in peace negotiations.

Zelenskyy warns against ‘pseudo-
republics’

Russia is trying to create new “pseudo-republics” in Ukraine to break
his countrv apart. President Volodvmvr Zelenskvv has said in his
nightly address to the nation.

Zelenskyy has called on Ukraine’s regions, including Kherson, which
was captured by Russian forces, not to repeat the experience of
Donetsk and Luhansk. Pro-Russian separatists began fighting
Ukrainian forces in those eastern regions in 2014.

“The occupiers on the territory of the Kherson region are trying to
repeat the sad experience of the formation of pseudo-republics,”
Zelenskyy said. “They are blackmailing local leaders, putting pressure
on deputies, looking for someone to bribe.”

City council members in Kherson, a southern city of 290,000, on
Saturday rejected plans for a new pseudo-republic, Zelenskyy said.

“Ukraine will stand this test. We need time and strength to break the
war machine that has come to our land,” he said.

UK to pay people $450 a month to open
their homes to Ukraine refugees

The United Kingdom will pay people to open their homes to
Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion as the government moves to
deflect anger about its response to the fastest-growing refugee crisis in
Europe since World War II.

The new scheme, called “Homes for Ukraine”, will let refugees from
the war come to the UK even if they do not have family ties, the
government said.
The country will pay people 350 pounds ($456) a month if they can
offer refugees a spare room or property for a minimum period of six
months.

Medical train carries Ukrainian children
with cancer

About 60 children — cancer patients from Ukraine — have boarded a
medical train in a Polish town, bound for hospitals in Warsaw and
elsewhere.

Medical workers carried some young patients in their arms, on
stretchers and in a wheelchair at a station in Medyka, near the
Ukrainian border.

“Some of them will require oxygen, will require some form of intensive
care, and some have COVID-19 and have to be kept separate from
others,” said Dominik Daszuta, an anaesthetist from Warsaw Hospital.
He said the train has transported 120 children with cancer so far.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) says

at least 2.5 million people have fled Ukraine in the two weeks since the
Russian invasion started.

se mnie mawanlniusken. Ate ten Direnritanm
VANIGIIC vayr reverts WEIN SIU TEE INMOOIGIE
attack on convoy not in evacuation corridor

The seven women and children who Ukraine says died when Russian
forces attacked a convoy escaping a village in the Kyiv region on
Saturday were not — as previously stated — in an agreed-upon
evacuation corridor, the defence ministry said.

Ukraine’s intelligence service initially said those who died outside
Peremoha had been in a “green corridor” agreed with Russia.

A defence ministry statement later said people had in fact tried to

escape by themselves, “so they began evacuating without the ‘green
corridor’ agreed by the parties”.

Russian tanks move into positions near Kyiv

UKRAINE WAR
(Russian tanks near

Inside Story: Is Facebook abandoning its
nate speech policy?

Meta Platforms Inc, the company that owns Facebook and Instagram,

could soon be banned in Russia as an “extremist organisation”.

The Russian move comes in response to Meta announcing a change in

its hate speech policy, allowing violent posts in some instances.

There is now a partial exception when the targets are Russian soldiers
in Ukraine. Users are even allowed to call for Putin’s death.

But what are the consequences of this change in policy?

als Facebook abandoning its hate speech policy? | Inside St. lad
INSIDE*
STORY

ALJAZEERA

facebook >

NG] = = 1010) Gre Oh) >t)
(ot-Yaeor-]| vo) an Ula ab-Me (-v-1 40)

Ukraine says Russia plans to control
Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant: IAEA

The IInited Nations nuclear watchdog. the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA), has said it was told by Ukraine that Russia was
planning to take full and permanent control of the Zaporizhzhia
nuclear power plant, Europe’s biggest, but that Russia had later denied
this.

“The President of Ukraine’s nuclear power plant operator Energoatom,
Petro Kotin, said in a letter to the Director General that around 400
Russian soldiers were ‘being present full time on site’ [at
Zaporizhzhia],” the IAEA said in a statement.

The IAEA said the Ukrainian regulator had also informed it that efforts
to repair damaged power lines at the Chernobyl nuclear plant were

continuing and that diesel generators were providing backup power to
systems relevant for safety.

Russian shelling attacks nuclear facilities and plants

ALJAZEERA

=
RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR
Shelling nuclear tese research institute _

LliLenten menial ant eaeuisre ke eemeldn Fe. lave lt
VINIGIIC rt SvIeiit vaye im -erpene tv folaell
PM, discussed prospects for peace talks

Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he has spoken to Israeli
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and discussed the prospects for peace
talks to end the conflict with Russia.

Zelenskyy made the announcement in a tweet and also said he had
asked Bennett for help in freeing the mayor of the city of Melitopol,
whom Ukraine says was abducted by Russian forces.

@ Bonogumup 3enexcoKuit @ @ZelenskyyUa vy

Ukraine government official

Continued dialogue with = PM @naftalibennett. We
talked about Russian aggression and the prospects for
peace talks. We must stop repressions against civilians:
asked to assist in the release of captive mayor of
Melitopol and local public figures #StopRussia

Some 13,000 Ukrainians evacuated from
cities on Saturday, deputy PM says

About 13,000 people were evacuated from a number of Ukrainian
cities on Saturday, said Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk,
almost twice the number who managed to get out the previous day.
Vereshchuk said in an online message that no one had managed to
leave the besieged city of Mariupol and blamed obstruction by Russian
forces. Moscow had earlier accused Ukrainian forces of intentionally
trapping people there.

Amsterdam's Orthodox clergy split from
Moscow Patriarch

The clergy of the Russian Orthodox Church in the Dutch city of
Amsterdam has announced it will split from the Moscow church
because of threats to them over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Ina statement posted to its website, it said that after a meeting “the
clergy unanimously announced that it is no longer possible for them to
function within the Moscow Patriarchate and provide a spiritually safe
environment for our faithful”.

It was “with a heavy heart” that the four priests of Saint Nicholas of
Myra in Amsterdam had reached their decision, they said.

Censorship, arrests, shutdowns: Putin crushes Russian me... lad
ae Share

Ga
THE LISTENING POST

RUSSIA
Sweden official dismisses Russian NATO
warning
Sweden’s foreign minister has dismissed fresh warnings from Russia

that the Nordic country’s joining NATO would lead to retaliatory
measures from Moscow.

Foreign Minister Ann Linde told Swedish news agency TT “Russia has
nothing to do with our independent decisions”, referring to
Stockholm’s possible move to join NATO.

Russia’s Interfax news agency on Saturday quoted a Russian Foreign
Ministry official saying the possible accession of Sweden and
neighbouring Finland to NATO would have serious military and
political consequences.

Satellite images show fires, severe damage
to residential buildings in Mariupol

Satellite images taken on Saturday morning showed extensive damage
to civilian infrastructure and residential buildings throughout the
southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol, a private United States company
said.

Maxar Technologies said fires were seen in the western section of the
Black Sea port city and dozens of high-rise apartment buildings had
been severely damaged. The images could not be independently
verified.

Mariupol is facing what Ukraine says is a “humanitarian catastrophe”,
with more than 1,500 civilians killed over 12 days.

A top Russian officer described the situation in the country in similarly
stark language.

“Unfortunately, the humanitarian situation in Ukraine is continuing to
deteriorate rapidly, and in some cities, it has reached catastrophic
proportions,” said the head of the Russian National Defence Control
Centre, Mikhail Mizintsev.

The UN has cited reports of “looting and violent confrontations”

among civilians over the few resources available.

A satellite image shows a close-up view of apartment buildings before the Russian
invasion in Ukraine, in the west of Mariupol, on June 21, 2021 [Maxar Technologies/via
Reuters]

A satellite image shows the same buildings in Mariupol on March 12 [Maxar
Technologies 
* 4. ee . t

A satellite image shows a multispectral view of fires in an industrial area, in the western
section of Mariupol, Ukraine [Maxar Technologies/Handout 
Russia-Ukraine war military dispatch:
March 12, 2022

Kyiv is braced for an all-out Russian assault as fighting intensifies on
the outskirts of the Ukrainian capital.

Air raid sirens were sounded in almost all regions of Ukraine on
Saturday. The cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and Mariupol remain
surrounded and are under heavy Russian bombardment.

Meanwhile, Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said
Moscow will treat Western arms shipments to Ukraine as legitimate
military targets.

Here were the main military developments on Saturday — the 17th day
of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
»Russian forees bomb more Ukrainian cities

ALJAZEERA

UKRAINE WAR
Russia widens attacks

US rushing $200m worth of weapons for
Ukraine

The US has said it would rush up to $200m in additional small arms,
anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons to Ukraine, as Ukrainian officials
pleaded for more equipment to defend against heavy shelling by
Russian forces.

US President Joe Biden on Saturday authorised the additional security
assistance, the White House said, paving the way for the “immediate”
shipment of fresh military equipment to Ukraine, a senior
administration official said.

Biden’s decision brings total US security aid provided to Ukraine to
$1.2bn since January 2021, and to $3.2bn since 2014, when Russia
annexed the Crimea region of Ukraine, according to senior
administration officials.